that mother and baby in there are very
special to me because we were there when
they first came into the center that's
mama Abbott and when she arrived with
her little baby she was in a shocking
condition she was very close to
starvation
when she fell from the crate in front of
us it was hard to believe she was still
alive she was ravaged by hunger wasting
away with the need to provide milk for
her baby her forest home had been ripped
up and replaced with a palm oil
plantation where there was almost
nothing to eat
it's where 90% of the orphans arriving
at the center are found mama
Abbot and her baby were rescued in the
nick of time
a few more days and they would have died
but loner and her team successfully
nursed them back to health
now eight months on mama Abbott's life
is about to change you must be very
excited Alice it's always good it's nice
to get anything out of the the project
it's so lovely how many does this leave
you with the center roughly exactly 600
exactly six islands
that's crazy because you just had I
think you had oh just over 300 when I
was lasting so we had 430 then we had
635 but then we've got one more and just
as we were going to release yesterday
we've got another one in so we just hit
600 again nothing to be proud unless I
know I know well it's just sheriffs
community rescued and confiscated
orangutangs arrived at the centre faster
than loaner can release them but at
least this handful have a second chance
baba Abbot has come a long way from the
palm oil plantation where she was found
and to see a now fit and healthy and a
baby looking 100% as well that's awesome
and now over the next couple of days
we're gonna be able to see a release
back where she belongs
you can imagine the trauma all these
orangutangs have been through but with
mama Albert I saw it firsthand
seeing her released will bring home how
important the work of the center really
is